# custom_project Yocto repo for the Yocto Base Build System


## Introduction


This repository provides files to setup and build the Yocto base system for
supported custom custom_project products. The external source repositories are from the latest
yocto honister branch. Additionally, this repository can also be prepared for
installing debian packages from binaries/files being hosted in a package manager source.

## Features

This repository is a wrapper to fetching and building Yocto software components for xilinx zynq.
Furthermore, it includes mechanisms to create shortcuts or symbolic links for easy access to:

1. Source Code: Quickly locate the source code of individual packages within the Yocto build environment.

1. Build Output: Easily access the compiled output (e.g., binaries, libraries) of packages.

1. Installables Output: Find the final installable packages (e.g., .deb, .rpm) generated by the build process.

This streamlined access to build artifacts enhances development and debugging processes.

### Key Improvements:

1. Enhanced Functionality: Explicitly states the repository's ability to create shortcuts for easier access to build artifacts.

1. Improved Clarity: Highlights the benefits of these shortcuts for developers (easier navigation, faster debugging).

1. Conciseness: Maintains a concise and informative tone.

1. This revised text provides a more comprehensive and informative description of the repository's capabilities.

## Getting Started


1. Build the solution
    ```bash
    go build
    ```

1. Clone the Xilinx repositories and switch to "honister" branch
    ```bash
    ./yocto_for_xilinx -f clone
    ```
1. Yocto environment for Xilinx Zynq zcu102 can be sourced. This action enables bibatke commands to
   be executed. For instance if the custom_project minimal image has to be built, do the following:
    ```bash
    source setup_custom_project generated/
    bitbake custom_project-image-minimal
    ```

The custom_project-image-minimal contains a minimal root file system. In contrast to
core-image-minimal, the aptitude and systemd packages have been included.

1. If the linux kernel and device tree for Zynq zcu102 board has to be built, do:
    ```bash
    ./yocto_for_xilinx -c virtual/kernel
    ```

1. If the linux bootloader (u-boot) for Zynq zcu102 board has to be built, do:
    ```bash
    ./yocto_for_xilinx -c virtual/bootloader
    ```

1. If the linux bootloader (u-boot) for Zynq zcu102 board installation files
   have to be retrieved, do:
    ```bash
    ./yocto_for_xilinx -s virtual/bootloader
    ls -lht links/install/virtual_bootloader/
    ```

1. If the first stage bootloader for Zynq zcu102 board has to be built, do:
    ```bash
    ./yocto_for_xilinx -c fsbl-firmware
    ```

1. If the linux kernel source files for Zynq zcu102 board have to be 
   retrieved, do:
    ```bash
    ./yocto_for_xilinx -s virtual/kernel
    ls -lht links/sources/virtual_kernel/
    ```





